gsoc25: add cvmfs proposal (#1670)
HSF/hsf.github.io: _gsocproposals/2025/proposal_CVMFS_DistributeModelFiles.md

---
title: Evaluate Distribution of ML model files on CVMFS
layout: gsoc_proposal
project: CernVM-FS
year: 2025
organization:
  - CERN
difficulty: medium
duration: 175
mentor_avail: June-October
---

# Description

Particle physicists studying nature at highest energy scales at the Large Hadron Collider rely on simulations and data processing for their experiments.
These workloads run on the "computing grid", a massive globally distributed computing infrastructure.
Deploying software efficiently and reliable to this grid is an important and challenging task.

> CVMFS is an optimised shared file system developed specifically for this purpose: It is implemented as a POSIX read-only file system in user space (a FUSE module).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CVMFS is an optimised shared file system developed specifically for this purpose: it is implemented as a POSIX read-only file system in user space (a FUSE module).
```

Files and directories are hosted on standard web servers and mounted in the universal namespace `/cvmfs`.
In many cases, it replaces package managers and shared software areas on cluster file systems as means to distribute the software used to process experiment data.

## Task idea

CVMFS is optimized for the distribution of software (header files, scripts and libraries), taking advantage of the repeated access pattern for its caching, and the possibility to deduplicate files present in several versions. 

> CVMFS is capable to provide a general read-only POSIX file system view on data in external storage. A very common usecase is to make conditions databases available to workloads running in distributed computing infrastructure, but various datasets have been published in CVMFS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CVMFS is capable to provide a general read-only POSIX file system view on data in external storage. A very common use case is to make conditions databases available to workloads running in distributed computing infrastructure, but various datasets have been published in CVMFS.
```

> CVMFS is capable to provide a general read-only POSIX file system view on data in external storage. A very common usecache is to make conditions databases available to workloads running in distributed computing infrastructure, but various datasets have been published in CVMFS.

Author: ```suggestion
CVMFS is capable to provide a general read-only POSIX file system view on data in external storage. A very common usecase is to make conditions databases available to workloads running in distributed computing infrastructure, but various datasets have been published in CVMFS.
```

> How efficient CVMFS can be always depends on the details in these usecases - often the benefit for the users is simply in leveraging the existing server and proxy infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How efficient CVMFS can be always depends on the details in these use cases - often the benefit for the users is simply in leveraging the existing server and proxy infrastructure.
```
